# Organon
CSS ruleset validation via [Higher Order Logic](https://hol-theorem-prover.org/) ([HOL](https://github.com/HOL-Theorem-Prover/HOL))

# The idea
The objective is being able to run tests against an HTML/CSS codebase in order to validate the final layout via a mathematical proof driven process modelling the W3C CSS standard.

_Organon_ generates a set of HOL theories which represent the hypothesis of a HOL theorem to be proved. The thesis is represented by a HOL statement about final CSS values of properties on elements after they are rendered. The CSS rendering engine will provide actual values, however expected values are produced by the set of theories.

_Organon_ builds the theories based on the CSS codebase.

## Scenarios & applications
Possible scenarios and applications are the following:

- Validating/testing browser/CSS rendering engine behavior. Browser/CSS rendering engine renders elements in the expected way. 
- Validating a website layout. Testing that the styling codebase is well formed.

## Architecture and challanges
In order to perform this task, _Organon_ must needs the following inputs:

- The CSS codebase.
- An HTML stream.

_Organon_ will provide a boolean as output indicating whether the CSS values for properties on elements caluclated by the browser match those calculated via the HOL theories which map the W3C standard.

### Theorem to prove
_Organon_ needs to be able to drive a mathematical proof by having as hypothesis the following data:

- A set of propositions mapping the HTML structure.
- A set of propositions mapping the CSS rules.

The thesis to prove is represented by a set of equalities involving all (or some) CSS properties of all (or some of) the elements in the provided HTML structure, together with browser computed values for those properties.

### Theorysets
_Organon_ will have to model the CSS W3C Standard. in order to do so it needs to have a set of theories that allows it to interpret the concept of:

- CSS selectors.
- CSS rules.

This set will be referred to as the _Theorybase_ and is a static one, included in every validation session performed by _Organon_.

#### CSS to HOL
Another set of theories is represented by those dynamically generated by _Organon_ and coming from the input CSS. These theories represent the CSS codebase given as input. in order to produce this set of theories, _Oganon_ needs to compile the CSS codebase into HOL theories. This is one of the challanges of the application which introduced parsing complexity.

# Thinking about solutions
In order to solve the challanges, it is possible to consider some possible strategies.

## Language and platform
_Organon_ should be cross platform. Thus [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) is to be highly considered together with [TypeScript](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript).

## CSS parsing
No need to re-invent the wheel. It might be possible to use some other project. Possible candidate: [LESS](https://github.com/less). This would allow to reuse components (AST generation), however the emitter should be coded from scratch.

# Considerations and thoughts
It is possible to consider _Organon_ the following way: 

> _Organon_ as a W3C CSS Standard formal verification system.
